A typical game of Magic involves two or more players who are engaged in a battle, acting as powerful wizards known as Planeswalkers. Each player has their own deck of cards, purchased and constructed from a limited pool of available cards. A player typically starts the game with a 'life total' of twenty and loses the game when the total is reduced to zero. A player can lose the game if they must draw from an empty deck. Some cards specify other ways to win or lose the game. One of the 'Magic Golden Rules' is: 'Whenever a card's text directly contradicts these rules, the card takes precedence'. According to CNET, the game has many variants; 'Magic tends to embrace all that house ruling, making it official when it catches on. Commander started as a fan-created format, after all.' Cards in Magic: The Gathering generally have a consistent format, with half of the face of the card showing the card's art, and the other half listing the card's mechanics, often relying on commonly-reused keywords to simplify the card's text. Cards fall into two classes: lands and spells. Lands produce mana, or magical energy. Players usually can only play one land card per turn, with most land providing a specific color of mana when they are 'tapped', usually by rotating the card 90 degrees to show it has been used that turn. Each land can be tapped for mana only once per turn. Meanwhile, spells consume mana, typically requiring at least one mana of a specific color. More powerful spells cost more, and more specifically colored, mana, so as the game progresses, more land will be in play, more mana will be available, and the quantity and relative power of the spells played tends to increase. Spells come in several varieties: non-permanents like 'sorceries' and 'instants' have a single, one-time effect before they go to the 'graveyard' (discard pile); 'enchantments' and 'artifacts' that remain in play after being cast to provide a lasting magical effect; and 'creature' spells summon creatures that can attack and damage an opponent as well as used to defend from the opponent's creature attacks; 'planeswalker' spells that summon powerful allies that act similarly to other players. Land, enchantments, artifacts, creature, planeswalker, and battle cards are considered 'permanents' as they remain in play until removed by other spells, ability, or combat effects. Players begin the game by shuffling their decks and then drawing seven cards. On each player's turn, following a set phase order, they draw a card, tap their lands and other permanents as necessary to gain mana as to cast spells, engage their creatures in a single attack round against their opponent who may use their own creatures to block the attack, and then complete other actions with any remaining mana. Most actions that a player can perform enter the 'Stack', a concept similar to the stack in computer programming i.e. the stack follows Last in First Out order where the last card played onto the stack is the first card effect resolved, as either player can react to these actions with other actions, such as counter-spells; the stack provides a method of resolving complex interactions that may result in certain scenarios.
